.TH ICAL\-GUY 1 "2026-02-17" "ical-guy 0.10.2" "General Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
ical\-guy \- query macOS calendar events, reminders, and manage meetings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ical\-guy
.RI [ subcommand ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ical\-guy
is a command\-line tool for querying macOS calendar events and reminders via
EventKit.
It supports text and JSON output, ANSI colors, meeting detection
(Zoom, Google Meet, Teams, WebEx), reminders, and TOML configuration.
It is designed as a modern replacement for icalBuddy.
.PP
When no subcommand is given,
.B events
is used by default.
.PP
Output format is auto\-detected: text when stdout is a terminal, JSON when
piped. Override with
.BR \-\-format .
.PP
Colors are enabled by default and adapt to terminal capabilities
(truecolor, 256\-color, 16\-color). Disable with
.B \-\-no\-color
or by setting the
.B NO_COLOR
environment variable.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B events
Query calendar events.
This is the default subcommand.
.TP
.B calendars
List available calendars.
.TP
.B meeting now
Show current meeting details with time remaining.
.TP
.B meeting next
Show next upcoming meeting with time until start.
.TP
.B meeting open
Open current meeting URL in a browser.
Supports per\-vendor browser selection via config or the
.B \-\-browser
flag.
Use
.B \-\-next
to open the next upcoming meeting instead.
.TP
.B meeting list
List today's meetings (events with detected video call URLs).
.TP
.B birthdays
List upcoming birthdays from the Contacts birthday calendar.
Defaults to the next 30 days.
.TP
.B reminders list
List reminders.
This is the default reminders subcommand.
Defaults to showing incomplete reminders.
.TP
.B reminders lists
List available reminder lists.
.TP
.B conflicts
Detect double\-booked events in a date range.
Excludes all\-day events by default.
Automatically filters out canceled events, free\-availability events,
and events the current user has declined.
.TP
.B free
Find free time slots within working hours for deep work planning.
Supports configurable working hours and minimum slot duration.
Uses the same scheduling filters as
.BR conflicts .
.TP
.B week
Print the Calendar.app week number for a given date.
Does not require EventKit access.
.TP
.B help
Show help information.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
These options are available on most subcommands.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " format"
Output format:
.B json
or
.BR text .
Auto\-detects based on whether stdout is a TTY if not specified.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.BI \-\-group\-by " mode"
Group output by the given mode.
Valid values:
.BR none " (flat list),"
.BR date " (group by date),"
.BR calendar " (group by calendar/list)."
For events, multi\-day ranges default to
.BR date ;
single\-day ranges default to
.BR none .
For reminders,
.B calendar
groups by reminder list.
.TP
.B \-\-show\-empty\-dates
Show dates with no events when grouping by date.
Implies
.BR "\-\-group\-by date" .
.TP
.BI \-\-time\-format " pattern"
Time format string (ICU pattern, e.g. "HH:mm" for 24\-hour).
Overrides the
.B [templates] time\-format
config value.
.TP
.BI \-\-date\-format " pattern"
Date format string (ICU pattern, e.g. "yyyy\-MM\-dd").
Overrides the
.B [templates] date\-format
config value.
.TP
.B \-\-show\-uid
Show event UIDs in text output.
.TP
.BI \-\-bullet " string"
Bullet prefix for each event (e.g. "\(->") ").
Overrides the
.B [templates] bullet
config value.
.TP
.BI \-\-separator " string"
Separator between events (e.g. "\-\-\-").
Overrides the
.B [templates] separator
config value.
.TP
.BI \-\-indent " string"
Indentation for detail lines (default: 4 spaces).
Overrides the
.B [templates] indent
config value.
.TP
.BI \-\-truncate\-notes " n"
Truncate notes to
.I n
characters (0 = no limit).
Overrides the
.B [templates] truncate\-notes
config value.
.TP
.BI \-\-truncate\-location " n"
Truncate location to
.I n
characters (0 = no limit).
Overrides the
.B [templates] truncate\-location
config value.
.SH EVENTS OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-from " date"
Start date for the query range.
Defaults to the start of today.
See
.B DATE FORMATS
below.
.TP
.BI \-\-to " date"
End date for the query range.
Defaults to the end of the start date.
See
.B DATE FORMATS
below.
.TP
.BI \-\-include\-calendars " calendars"
Only include events from these calendars.
Comma\-separated list of calendar titles.
.TP
.BI \-\-exclude\-calendars " calendars"
Exclude events from these calendars.
Comma\-separated list of calendar titles.
.TP
.BI \-\-include\-cal\-types " types"
Only include events from calendars of these types.
Comma\-separated list of types:
.BR local ", " calDAV ", " exchange ", " subscription ", " birthday ", " icloud .
The
.B icloud
type is a virtual alias that matches calDAV calendars with an iCloud source.
Type matching is case\-insensitive.
.TP
.BI \-\-exclude\-cal\-types " types"
Exclude events from calendars of these types.
Same values as
.BR \-\-include\-cal\-types .
.TP
.B \-\-exclude\-all\-day
Exclude all\-day events from the output.
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " n"
Maximum number of events to return.
.TP
.BI \-\-template " path"
Path to a .mustache template file for event rendering.
Overrides both
.B [templates] event\-file
and
.B [templates] event
from config.
See
.B TEMPLATES
below.
.SH MEETING OPTIONS
The
.BR "meeting now" ,
.BR "meeting next" ,
.BR "meeting open" ,
and
.B "meeting list"
subcommands support the following options:
.TP
.BI \-\-include\-calendars " calendars"
Only include events from these calendars.
Comma\-separated list of calendar titles.
.TP
.BI \-\-exclude\-calendars " calendars"
Exclude events from these calendars.
Comma\-separated list of calendar titles.
.PP
The
.B "meeting open"
subcommand also supports:
.TP
.B \-\-next
Open the next upcoming meeting instead of the current one.
.TP
.BI \-\-browser " name"
Open the meeting URL in the specified browser application instead of the
system default.
Accepts an application name (e.g. "Google Chrome") or an absolute path
(e.g. "/Applications/Firefox.app").
This flag takes precedence over any
.B [browsers]
config settings.
See
.B CONFIGURATION
below.
.SH BIRTHDAYS OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-from " date"
Start date for the query range.
Defaults to the start of today.
See
.B DATE FORMATS
below.
.TP
.BI \-\-to " date"
End date for the query range.
Defaults to 30 days from the start date.
See
.B DATE FORMATS
below.
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " n"
Maximum number of birthdays to return.
.SH CONFLICTS OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-from " date"
Start date for the query range.
Defaults to the start of today.
See
.B DATE FORMATS
below.
.TP
.BI \-\-to " date"
End date for the query range.
Defaults to the end of the start date.
See
.B DATE FORMATS
below.
.TP
.BI \-\-include\-calendars " calendars"
Only include events from these calendars.
Comma\-separated list of calendar titles.
.TP
.BI \-\-exclude\-calendars " calendars"
Exclude events from these calendars.
Comma\-separated list of calendar titles.
.TP
.BI \-\-include\-cal\-types " types"
Only include events from calendars of these types.
See
.B EVENTS OPTIONS
for valid values.
.TP
.BI \-\-exclude\-cal\-types " types"
Exclude events from calendars of these types.
See
.B EVENTS OPTIONS
for valid values.
.TP
.B \-\-include\-all\-day
Include all\-day events in conflict detection (excluded by default).
.SH FREE OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-from " date"
Start date for the query range.
Defaults to the start of today.
Use
.B now
to clip today's slots to remaining working time only.
See
.B DATE FORMATS
below.
.TP
.BI \-\-to " date"
End date for the query range.
Defaults to the end of the start date.
See
.B DATE FORMATS
below.
.TP
.BI \-\-include\-calendars " calendars"
Only include events from these calendars.
Comma\-separated list of calendar titles.
.TP
.BI \-\-exclude\-calendars " calendars"
Exclude events from these calendars.
Comma\-separated list of calendar titles.
.TP
.BI \-\-include\-cal\-types " types"
Only include events from calendars of these types.
See
.B EVENTS OPTIONS
for valid values.
.TP
.BI \-\-exclude\-cal\-types " types"
Exclude events from calendars of these types.
See
.B EVENTS OPTIONS
for valid values.
.TP
.B \-\-include\-all\-day
Include all\-day events as busy time (excluded by default).
.TP
.BI \-\-min\-duration " minutes"
Minimum free slot duration in minutes.
Defaults to 30.
Can be configured in
.IR config.toml .
.TP
.BI \-\-work\-start " HH:MM"
Working hours start time.
Defaults to 09:00.
Can be configured in
.IR config.toml .
.TP
.BI \-\-work\-end " HH:MM"
Working hours end time.
Defaults to 17:00.
Can be configured in
.IR config.toml .
.SH REMINDERS OPTIONS
The
.B "reminders list"
subcommand supports the following options:
.TP
.B \-\-completed
Show completed reminders instead of incomplete ones.
.TP
.B \-\-all
Show all reminders (both completed and incomplete).
.TP
.BI \-\-from " date"
Start date for due date filtering.
See
.B DATE FORMATS
below.
.TP
.BI \-\-to " date"
End date for due date filtering.
See
.B DATE FORMATS
below.
.TP
.BI \-\-include\-lists " lists"
Only include reminders from these lists.
Comma\-separated list of reminder list names.
.TP
.BI \-\-exclude\-lists " lists"
Exclude reminders from these lists.
Comma\-separated list of reminder list names.
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " n"
Maximum number of reminders to return.
.TP
.BI \-\-sort\-by " field"
Sort reminders by the given field.
Valid values:
.BR dueDate " (default),"
.BR priority ,
.BR title ,
.BR creationDate .
.SH WEEK OPTIONS
.TP
.I date
Optional positional argument.
Date in YYYY\-MM\-DD format or any supported date format (see
.BR "DATE FORMATS" ).
Defaults to today.
.TP
.BI \-N " n" "\fR,\fP \-\-next" " n"
Offset forward by
.I n
weeks.
Cannot be used with
.BR \-\-prev .
.TP
.BI \-P " n" "\fR,\fP \-\-prev" " n"
Offset backward by
.I n
weeks.
Cannot be used with
.BR \-\-next .
.TP
.B \-\-start\-date
Print the start date (Sunday) of the week as YYYY\-MM\-DD.
Cannot be used with
.BR \-\-end\-date .
.TP
.B \-\-end\-date
Print the end date (Saturday) of the week as YYYY\-MM\-DD.
Cannot be used with
.BR \-\-start\-date .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-pad
Don't zero\-pad single digit week numbers (e.g., "7" instead of "07").
.SH DATE FORMATS
The
.B \-\-from
and
.B \-\-to
options accept the following date formats:
.TP
.B today
Start of today.
.TP
.B tomorrow
Start of tomorrow.
.TP
.B yesterday
Start of yesterday.
.TP
.BI today+ N
.I N
days from today (e.g.,
.BR today+7 ).
.TP
.BI today\- N
.I N
days before today (e.g.,
.BR today\-3 ).
.TP
.B now
Current date and time.
.TP
.I YYYY\-MM\-DD
ISO 8601 date (e.g.,
.BR 2026\-03\-15 ).
.TP
.I "natural language"
English date phrases such as
.BR "june 10" ,
.BR "march 1, 2026" ,
.BR "june 10 at 6pm" ,
.BR "next friday" ,
or
.BR "tomorrow at noon" .
Uses macOS natural language date detection.
.SH OUTPUT
.SS Text Output (default for TTY)
Event display depends on the
.B \-\-group\-by
mode.
With
.BR date ,
events are grouped under bold date headers.
With
.BR calendar ,
events are grouped under colored calendar name headers.
With
.BR none ,
events are shown as a flat list without headers.
.PP
Each event shows time range, title, and calendar name.
Detail lines are indented below each event showing location, meeting URL,
attendees (as an indented list with RSVP status), and recurrence pattern.
.PP
When
.B \-\-show\-empty\-dates
is used, dates with no events display
"No events." under the date header.
.PP
Reminders with
.B "\-\-group\-by calendar"
are grouped under colored list name headers.
.SS JSON Output (default for pipes)
.B Events
.PP
The JSON structure depends on the
.B \-\-group\-by
mode:
.PP
With
.B \-\-group\-by none
(default for single\-day ranges), a JSON array of event objects.
.PP
With
.BR "\-\-group\-by date" ,
a JSON array of date group objects.
Each group has a
.B date
field (ISO 8601 date string) and an
.B events
array.
With
.BR \-\-show\-empty\-dates ,
dates with no events have an empty
.B events
array.
.PP
With
.BR "\-\-group\-by calendar" ,
a JSON array of calendar group objects.
Each group has a
.B calendar
object and an
.B events
array.
.PP
Reminders with
.B "\-\-group\-by calendar"
produce an array of list group objects.
Each group has a
.B list
object and a
.B reminders
array.
.PP
Each event object contains:
.TP
.B id
Unique event identifier.
.TP
.B title
Event title.
.TP
.B startDate
Event start as an ISO 8601 datetime string.
.TP
.B endDate
Event end as an ISO 8601 datetime string.
.TP
.B isAllDay
Boolean indicating whether the event is all\-day.
.TP
.B location
Event location, or null.
.TP
.B notes
Event notes, or null.
.TP
.B url
Event URL, or null.
.TP
.B meetingUrl
Detected meeting URL (Zoom, Google Meet, Teams, WebEx), or null.
.TP
.B meetingVendor
Detected meeting vendor ("meet", "zoom", "teams", "webex"), or null.
Used for per\-vendor browser selection.
.TP
.B calendar
Object with
.BR id ,
.BR title ,
.BR type ,
.BR source ,
and
.B color
fields.
.TP
.B attendees
Array of attendee objects, each with
.BR name ,
.BR email ,
.BR status ,
.BR role ,
and
.B isCurrentUser
fields.
.TP
.B organizer
Object with
.B name
and
.B email
fields, or null.
.TP
.B recurrence
Object with
.B isRecurring
(boolean) and
.B description
(string or null) fields.
.TP
.B status
Event status (e.g., "confirmed", "tentative", "canceled").
.TP
.B availability
Availability (e.g., "busy", "free", "tentative", "unavailable").
.TP
.B timeZone
Event time zone identifier, or null.
.TP
.B creationDate
Event creation date as ISO 8601, or null.
.TP
.B lastModifiedDate
Last modification date as ISO 8601, or null.
.PP
.B Calendars
.PP
A JSON array of calendar objects.
Each object contains:
.TP
.B id
Unique calendar identifier.
.TP
.B title
Calendar name.
.TP
.B type
Calendar type (e.g., "calDAV", "subscription").
.TP
.B source
Calendar source (e.g., "iCloud").
.TP
.B color
Hex color code (e.g., "#306793").
.PP
.B Reminders
.PP
A JSON array of reminder objects.
Each object contains:
.TP
.B id
Unique reminder identifier.
.TP
.B title
Reminder title.
.TP
.B notes
Reminder notes, or null.
.TP
.B url
Reminder URL, or null.
.TP
.B isCompleted
Boolean indicating whether the reminder is completed.
.TP
.B completionDate
Completion date as ISO 8601, or null.
.TP
.B dueDate
Due date as ISO 8601, or null.
.TP
.B priority
Priority level: "none", "low", "medium", or "high".
.TP
.B list
Object with
.BR id ,
.BR title ,
.BR color ,
and
.B source
fields.
.TP
.B recurrence
Object with
.B isRecurring
(boolean) and
.B description
(string or null) fields.
.TP
.B creationDate
Reminder creation date as ISO 8601, or null.
.TP
.B lastModifiedDate
Last modification date as ISO 8601, or null.
.PP
.B "Reminder Lists"
.PP
A JSON array of reminder list objects.
Each object contains:
.TP
.B id
Unique list identifier.
.TP
.B title
List name.
.TP
.B color
Hex color code (e.g., "#FF9500").
.TP
.B source
List source (e.g., "iCloud").
.PP
.B Birthdays
.PP
A JSON array of birthday objects.
Each object contains:
.TP
.B name
Person's name.
.TP
.B date
Birthday date as an ISO 8601 datetime string.
.TP
.B calendar
Object with
.BR id ,
.BR title ,
.BR type ,
.BR source ,
and
.B color
fields.
.PP
.B Week
.PP
A JSON object with week information:
.TP
.B week
Week number (1\-53).
.TP
.B year
The year the week belongs to (may differ from the calendar year for
year\-end dates whose week spills into the next year).
.TP
.B startDate
Sunday of the week as YYYY\-MM\-DD.
.TP
.B endDate
Saturday of the week as YYYY\-MM\-DD.
.PP
.B Conflicts
.PP
A JSON object with conflict detection results:
.TP
.B groups
Array of conflict group objects, each containing
.B events
(array of event objects),
.B windowStart
(ISO 8601 datetime), and
.B windowEnd
(ISO 8601 datetime).
.TP
.B totalConflicts
Total number of conflict groups found.
.TP
.B dateRange
Object with
.B from
and
.B to
fields (ISO 8601 datetimes).
.PP
.B "Free Time"
.PP
A JSON object with free time analysis results:
.TP
.B days
Array of day objects, each containing
.B date
(ISO 8601 datetime),
.B dateLabel
(formatted string),
.B slots
(array of free slot objects), and
.B totalFreeMinutes
(integer).
Each slot object has
.BR start ,
.BR end ,
.BR durationMinutes ,
and
.B tier
("deep", "focus", "short", or "brief").
.TP
.B totalFreeMinutes
Total free minutes across all days.
.TP
.B workingHours
Object with
.BR startHour ,
.BR startMinute ,
.BR endHour ,
and
.B endMinute
fields.
.TP
.B minDurationMinutes
Minimum slot duration filter applied.
.TP
.B dateRange
Object with
.B from
and
.B to
fields (ISO 8601 datetimes).
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B ical\-guy
supports an optional TOML configuration file.
The file is loaded from
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/ical\-guy/config.toml
(defaults to
.IR ~/.config/ical\-guy/config.toml ).
CLI flags always take precedence over config values.
.PP
Example configuration:
.PP
.RS
.nf
[defaults]
format = "text"
exclude\-all\-day = false
include\-calendars = ["Work", "Personal"]
exclude\-calendars = ["US Holidays"]
include\-cal\-types = ["calDAV"]
exclude\-cal\-types = ["subscription"]
group\-by = "date"
show\-empty\-dates = true

[text]
show\-calendar = true
show\-location = true
show\-attendees = true
show\-meeting\-url = true
show\-notes = false
show\-uid = false

[free]
min\-duration = 30
work\-start = "09:00"
work\-end = "17:00"

[browsers]
default = "Safari"
meet = "Google Chrome"
zoom = "Safari"
teams = "Microsoft Edge"
webex = "Google Chrome"

[templates]
time\-format = "HH:mm"
date\-format = "yyyy\-MM\-dd"
event = "{{startTime}} \- {{title}}"
event\-file = "my\-template.mustache"
date\-header = "{{#bold}}=== {{formattedDate}} ==={{/bold}}"
date\-header\-file = "date\-header.mustache"
calendar\-header = "{{#calendarColor}}{{title}}{{/calendarColor}}"
calendar\-header\-file = "calendar\-header.mustache"
bullet = "\(-> "
indent = "  "
separator = "\-\-\-"
truncate\-notes = 80
truncate\-location = 40
.fi
.RE
.SS Browser Selection
The
.B [browsers]
section configures which browser application to use when opening meeting
URLs with
.BR "meeting open" .
.PP
Priority chain:
.B \-\-browser
CLI flag > vendor\-specific config key > config
.B default
key > system default browser.
.TP
.B default
Default browser for all meeting vendors.
.TP
.B meet
Browser for Google Meet URLs.
.TP
.B zoom
Browser for Zoom URLs.
.TP
.B teams
Browser for Microsoft Teams URLs.
.TP
.B webex
Browser for WebEx URLs.
.PP
Values can be application names (e.g. "Google Chrome", "Safari") or absolute
paths (e.g. "/Applications/Firefox.app").
Applications are searched in
.IR /Applications ,
.IR ~/Applications ,
and
.IR /System/Applications .
.SH TEMPLATES
.B ical\-guy
uses Mustache templates for text output.
Customize event rendering with inline templates in
.IR config.toml ,
external
.I .mustache
files, or the
.B \-\-template
CLI flag.
.SS Scalar Variables
.TP
.B {{title}}
Event title (e.g. "Team Standup").
.TP
.B {{location}}
Event location (e.g. "Conference Room A").
.TP
.B {{notes}}
Event notes.
.TP
.B {{url}}
Event URL.
.TP
.B {{meetingUrl}}
Meeting/video conference URL.
.TP
.B {{status}}
Event status (e.g. "confirmed").
.TP
.B {{availability}}
Availability (e.g. "busy").
.TP
.B {{timeZone}}
Event timezone (e.g. "America/New_York").
.TP
.B {{id}}
Event UID.
.SS Date/Time Variables
.TP
.B {{startTime}}
Formatted start time (e.g. "9:00 AM").
.TP
.B {{endTime}}
Formatted end time.
.TP
.B {{startDate}}
Formatted start date (e.g. "Monday, Feb 16, 2026").
.TP
.B {{endDate}}
Formatted end date.
.TP
.B {{relativeStart}}
Relative time to start (e.g. "in 30 minutes").
.TP
.B {{relativeEnd}}
Relative time to end.
.PP
All\-day events show "All day" for time variables and "all day" for
relative variables.
Customize formats with
.B \-\-time\-format
and
.B \-\-date\-format
(ICU patterns).
.SS Boolean Flags
Use with
.BI {{#flag}} ... {{/flag}}
sections.
Inverted sections:
.BI {{^flag}} ... {{/flag}} .
.TP
.B {{#isAllDay}}
True for all\-day events.
.TP
.B {{#isRecurring}}
True for recurring events.
.TP
.B {{#hasLocation}}
True if location is set and non\-empty.
.TP
.B {{#hasNotes}}
True if notes are set and non\-empty.
.TP
.B {{#hasUrl}}
True if URL is set.
.TP
.B {{#hasMeetingUrl}}
True if meeting URL is set.
.TP
.B {{#hasAttendees}}
True if event has attendees.
.TP
.B {{#hasOrganizer}}
True if organizer is set.
.SS Nested Objects
Use dot notation to access nested fields.
.TP
.B {{calendar.title}}
Calendar name.
.TP
.B {{calendar.color}}
Calendar hex color (e.g. "#FF0000").
.TP
.B {{calendar.type}}
Calendar type (e.g. "calDAV").
.TP
.B {{calendar.source}}
Calendar source (e.g. "iCloud").
.TP
.B {{organizer.name}}
Organizer name.
.TP
.B {{organizer.email}}
Organizer email.
.TP
.B {{recurrence.isRecurring}}
Same as {{isRecurring}}.
.TP
.B {{recurrence.description}}
Recurrence rule (e.g. "Every day").
.SS Attendees Array
Iterate with
.BI {{#attendees}} ... {{/attendees}} .
.TP
.B {{name}}
Attendee name.
.TP
.B {{email}}
Attendee email.
.TP
.B {{status}}
RSVP status (e.g. "accepted").
.TP
.B {{role}}
Role (e.g. "required").
.TP
.B {{isCurrentUser}}
True if this is the current user.
.TP
.B {{displayString}}
Pre\-formatted display string (e.g. "John Doe <john@example.com> (accepted)").
Use triple\-stache
.B {{{displayString}}}
to avoid HTML escaping.
.SS Display Toggles
Controlled by config or CLI flags.
.TP
.B {{#showCalendar}}
Show calendar name (default: true).
.TP
.B {{#showLocation}}
Show location (default: true).
.TP
.B {{#showAttendees}}
Show attendees (default: true).
.TP
.B {{#showMeetingUrl}}
Show meeting URL (default: true).
.TP
.B {{#showNotes}}
Show notes (default: false).
.TP
.B {{#showUid}}
Show event UID (default: false, enable with
.BR \-\-show\-uid ).
.SS Decoration Variables
Configurable via
.B [templates]
config section or CLI flags.
Use triple\-stache
.BI {{{ var }}}
for decorations to avoid HTML escaping.
.TP
.B {{{bullet}}}
Bullet character (default: empty).
.TP
.B {{{indent}}}
Indentation string (default: 4 spaces).
.TP
.B {{{separator}}}
Separator between events (default: empty).
.SS Lambdas
ANSI formatting lambdas, disabled with
.BR \-\-no\-color .
.TP
.BI {{#bold}} text {{/bold}}
Make text bold.
.TP
.BI {{#dim}} text {{/dim}}
Make text dimmed/gray.
.TP
.BI {{#calendarColor}} text {{/calendarColor}}
Apply the calendar's color to text.
.SS Group Header Templates
.PP
Date headers:
.BR {{formattedDate}} ", " {{#bold}} .
.PP
Calendar headers:
.BR {{title}} ", " {{color}} ", " {{type}} ", " {{source}} ", "
.BR {{#bold}} ", " {{#calendarColor}} .
.SS Example Templates
Minimal (one\-line summary):
.PP
.RS
.nf
{{startTime}} {{title}}
.fi
.RE
.PP
Detailed:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{{#bold}}{{title}}{{/bold}} ({{startTime}} \- {{endTime}})
{{#hasLocation}}  Location: {{location}}{{/hasLocation}}
{{#hasAttendees}}  Attendees: {{#attendees}}{{name}} {{/attendees}}{{/hasAttendees}}
{{#isRecurring}}  Recurs: {{recurrence.description}}{{/isRecurring}}
.fi
.RE
.PP
With relative time:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{{#bold}}{{title}}{{/bold}} \(em {{relativeStart}}
{{#hasLocation}}  @ {{location}}{{/hasLocation}}
.fi
.RE
.SS Template Precedence
.PP
For event templates: CLI
.B \-\-template
flag > config
.B event\-file
> config
.B event
inline > built\-in default.
.PP
For header templates: config
.B date\-header\-file
>
.B date\-header
inline > built\-in default (same for
.BR calendar\-header ).
.PP
Template files are loaded from
.I ~/.config/ical\-guy/templates/
(relative paths) or from absolute paths.
.SH MEETING URL EXTRACTION
The
.B meetingUrl
field is automatically populated when a Google Meet, Zoom,
Microsoft Teams, or WebEx URL is found in an event's
.BR url ,
.BR location ,
or
.B notes
fields (checked in that priority order).
If no meeting URL is detected, the field is null.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set, disables all colored output.
See
.IR https://no\-color.org .
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Base directory for configuration files.
Defaults to
.IR ~/.config .
.TP
.B COLORTERM
Used to detect truecolor support.
Values of "truecolor" or "24bit" enable 24\-bit color.
.TP
.B TERM
Used to detect 256\-color support when
.B COLORTERM
is not set.
.SH EXAMPLES
Show today's events:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show events for the next 7 days:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy events \-\-from today \-\-to today+7
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show tomorrow's events from the Work calendar, excluding all\-day events:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy events \-\-from tomorrow \-\-to tomorrow \\
    \-\-include\-calendars Work \-\-exclude\-all\-day
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show only calDAV calendar events:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy events \-\-include\-cal\-types calDAV
.fi
.RE
.PP
Exclude birthday and subscription calendars:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy events \-\-exclude\-cal\-types birthday,subscription
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show only iCloud\-sourced calendar events:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy events \-\-include\-cal\-types icloud
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show the next 5 events in the next 30 days:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy events \-\-from today \-\-to today+30 \-\-limit 5
.fi
.RE
.PP
Force JSON output:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy events \-\-format json
.fi
.RE
.PP
List available calendars:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy calendars
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show current meeting:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy meeting now
.fi
.RE
.PP
Open current meeting in browser:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy meeting open
.fi
.RE
.PP
Open current meeting in Google Chrome:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy meeting open \-\-browser "Google Chrome"
.fi
.RE
.PP
List today's meetings:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy meeting list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show upcoming birthdays:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy birthdays
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show birthdays in the next 90 days:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy birthdays \-\-from today \-\-to today+90
.fi
.RE
.PP
List incomplete reminders:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy reminders
.fi
.RE
.PP
List reminders due this week, sorted by priority:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy reminders list \-\-from today \-\-to today+7 \-\-sort\-by priority
.fi
.RE
.PP
List completed reminders from the Work list:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy reminders list \-\-completed \-\-include\-lists Work
.fi
.RE
.PP
List available reminder lists:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy reminders lists
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show current week number:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy week
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show next week's number:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy week \-\-next 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show the Sunday of the current week:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy week \-\-start\-date
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check for conflicts today:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy conflicts
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check for conflicts this week:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy conflicts \-\-from today \-\-to today+7
.fi
.RE
.PP
Find free time today:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy free
.fi
.RE
.PP
Find free time from now with 1\-hour minimum slots:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy free \-\-from now \-\-min\-duration 60
.fi
.RE
.PP
Find free time for the week with custom working hours:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy free \-\-from today \-\-to today+5 \\
    \-\-work\-start 08:00 \-\-work\-end 18:00
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show events grouped by calendar:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy events \-\-from today \-\-to today+7 \-\-group\-by calendar
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show a week of events with empty dates filled in:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy events \-\-from today \-\-to today+7 \-\-show\-empty\-dates
.fi
.RE
.PP
Flat event list with no grouping headers:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy events \-\-group\-by none
.fi
.RE
.PP
Reminders grouped by list:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy reminders list \-\-group\-by calendar
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pipe JSON events to
.BR jq (1)
to filter by meeting URL:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ical\-guy events \-\-format json | jq '[.[] | select(.meetingUrl != null)]'
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B >0
An error occurred (e.g., calendar access denied, no current meeting).
.SH NOTES
On first run, macOS will prompt for calendar access permission.
Grant access in System Settings > Privacy & Security > Calendars.
Reminder commands will separately prompt for reminders access
(Privacy & Security > Reminders).
.PP
Requires macOS 14 (Sonoma) or later.
.SH AUTHORS
Joshua Priddle
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jq (1)
